with me to discuss is Professor Lena
ctib she is the director of the soas
Middle East Institute um I hadn't seen
Jery's report we watched it together I'm
struck by how many of the victims in
these reports are pacifists who've
worked with Palestinians have picked
Palestinians up from the areas
Crossing they are the people in the
South most at risk from graza but in a
way they are in the same way closer to
the Palestinians would I be right
well we have to remember that in this
conflict not everyone is an extremist
not everyone believes in violence and
there are pacifists on both sides when
you're talking about pacifists who are
Israeli who live near Gaza these are the
people who are also observing the
suffering of the Palestinians in Gaza
and this perhaps makes them more likely
to want to help because of you know
observing the suffering of fellow human
beings rather than those who are in T
Aviv or West Bank who sorry or in
Jerusalem who are more detached from it
yeah I mean this is of course a
generalization however in general
communities that are isolated from
others uh don't really uh know what it's
like to be on the other side and so when
you have communities that are completely
detached from what life is like for
these Palestinians then perhaps they
don't even imagine the scale of the
suffering it's it's I I I don't know how
the
parents deal with what they're hearing
and and and what they're seeing um why
do you think it must have been a
deliberate strategy if Hamas had come in
and shot the men and shot the soldiers
that would be one thing but shooting
children burning children slitting the
throats of children that that is a
deliberate strategy why why have they
gone that far I mean the attack by Hamas
is is unprecedented in terms of scope in
terms of scale in terms of ambition
Hamas wants this to be a message to
Israel that this is an existential
battle now and for that reason they are
attacking everybody they regard
everybody as a legitimate Target to
instill fear in the Israeli population
because they know that the Israeli State
exists to protect the Jewish people and
the Israeli citizens and so in attacking
the civilians Hamas is basically trying
to say this idea of the Israeli state is
not viable so they are sending a uh
psychological message to the rest of the
uh Israeli population which is uh you
know another tool of warfare this is
psychological warfare as well as a
military attack causing actual physical
casualties what about the message to
their own people in Gaza that too I mean
Hamas wants to be seen as heroic and
it's no accident that the there are lots
of Palestinians who won't see this as
heroic no of course not but I mean we've
seen in the um reports uh people being
very desperate I mean we have to look at
the circumstances of people in Gaza they
are so desperate that for a lot of them
they feel they have no other alternative
and they think either way we're dead and
so we might as well get behind this kind
of lost battle because what have we got
to lose um it's really unfortunate I
mean not everyone necessarily believes
in hamas's methods or Hamas is a
political entity or a military entity
but for a lot of people they are so
desperate that they're just getting
behind Hamas for lack of other options
just on the wider region because we're
going to talk about that a lot this
evening um this is putting enormous
pressure it and it certainly will when
the pictures come out of Gaza in the in
the weeks ahead it's putting enormous
pressure on Arab governments and the
Egyptian government absolutely I mean
for Saudi Arabia that had just until
Saturday thought that its plan to go
ahead with a deal with Israel the United
States uh was kind of you know making
progress of course it was talking to the
Palestinian Authority about this deal to
try to find some sort of solution to
this conflict now that is stalled and
same for Egypt president CCE of Egypt is
facing an election soon and now he has a
very complicated uh problem on his hands
Professor KB good to see you thank you
for coming in this evening um lots to
discuss and we'll get into some more of
that uh through the course of the
program around the world and across the
UK you're watching BBC
News let's take a quick look at some of
the other stories making news today the
waiting list for Planned NHS England
treatment has risen again to a new
record high more than 7.7 million people
were waiting to start routine treatment
at the end of August it's highest number
since records began routine treatment
ranges from hip replacements to surgery
to remove cancerous
tumors the former Formula 1 boss Bernie
Eon has been given a suspended prison
sentence for fraud the 92-year-old
billionaire pleaded guilty at Souther
crime Court he admitted failing to
declare more than 400 million held in a
trust in Singapore to the UK government
in July 2015 he received a sentence of
17 months suspended for 2 years the UK
economy grew by. 2% in August according
to the latest figures the office for
National statistics says there was
strong growth in Services which was
partially offset by Falls in
manufacturing and Construction in
contrast some sectors fared poorly such
as Arts entertainment and
Recreation you're live with BBC News now
there are around 150 people thought to
have been taken hostage by Hamas last
night we received a bit more information
from the Israeli Defense Force on where
they're being held they believe they've
been dispersed among tunnels under Gaza
in locations that were not known to be
used by Hamas prior to this conflict but
remember this is not just an Israeli
hostage crisis there were 23
nationalities among those killed on
Saturday the US said tonight that 27
Americans were killed 14 are still
unaccounted for it's belied some of them
will be among the hostages there's 18
French citizens that are missing
including several children the French
prime minister Elizabeth Bourne said
they are sure that some of those were
abducted by Hamas 17 British Nationals
killed or abducted we don't have a
breakdown yet on the numbers that have
been taken so how do you get them out
alive that is the task of the
negotiating teams with me uh a man who
is an expert Scott Walker he's a former
hostage negotiator having resolved more
than 300 cases in his career thank you
for coming in it's good to see you um
what's the Arc of a hostage crisis like
this well as you can imagine in the
early hours and days there's lots of
High emotion uncertainty and confusion
so one of the early stages is to try and
build an information intelligence
picture try and find out what is going
on who actually has the hostages and try
and engage in some kind of dialogue with
them it's different though when you're
dealing with an organization rather than
a state or a government and the demands
of Hamas are so much different to what
other groups would be looking for
correct well this is the challenge in
this particular case because the
negotiations when they take place are
actually occurring in a war zone there's
an extra Dimension to it as well and
there are so many of them spread out
across G as well as you mentioned
earlier in tunnels and and and basement
and what have
you it seems to me that the strategy has
to be keeping in the mind of the hostage
takers the value of the people they're
holding how do you do that absolutely
it's about humanizing them and it's just
to kind of reiterate right at the
beginning when we talk about negotiation
we're not talking about agreeing or
condoning or acquiescing to the hostage
takers it's actually just opening up
some kind of dialogue to enable the safe
And Timely release so in the case of
Hamas that would be we could talk about
prisoners but what you have to give us
some proof of life you have to give us
some proof that they're being well cared
for absolutely proof of life is one of
the fundamental aspects of all hostage
negotiation uh and it's normally in the
very early stages what about the
complexity of this because as I've just
described I mean I I don't know how many
hostages are in there of different
nationalities but we've pulled out four
the French the Brits the Americans of
course the Israelis who takes the lead
because what you don't want to do is
over complicate a situation like this
well my understanding is there is a
coordination cell and Situation Room set
up and that will bring together the
Americans through the FBI and the Brits
and other National alties who have
hostages taken out there as well to kind
of coordinate the response to try to
identify and locate where the hostages
are being held and actually what are the
options are including there will be
options for hostage rescue perhaps as
part of the the incursion that is
inevitable but that obviously only
increases the risk to the hostages we're
going to have to brace ourselves for the
inevitable film that will come out we
hope against hope that it's it's not
somebody paraded who is already dead but
but does that as as a negotiator does
that affect the give and take that tends
to develop in a situation like
this well it's important to remain
optimistic in these and actually as I
mentioned just now it is about trying to
humanize the lives and the people the
hostages that they've got to actually
minimize the chances as much as possible
of them coming to harm and actually if
they want some kind of prisoner exchange
they need to take care it's their
responsibility for the welfare of the
hostages whilst in their captivity are
you hopeful yeah absolutely I think
normally there's a high chance of
success in hos negotiations generally
and I think if this is handled
well I'm hopeful for for Lam to come
back Scott it's good to see you thank
you for coming in